---
layout: default
title: Books
---

# Self-discovery, self-reflection & growth.

## The Winner effect
´´´
‌Stack small Wins
‌Create healthy relationship with your results.
      -> Reward your effort ,not outcome 
‌Manage expectations 
´´´
Habits are the key to the compound effect.

## Outliers
´´´
‌The 10000-hour Rule
‌Importance of opportunity
‌The role of luck and circumstances
‌The power of mindset
‌Understanding outliers
     What work did you do to be outlier?
‌Learning from failure
´´´
## The Intelligence Trap
´´´
‌Intelligence alone doesn't guarantee wise decision -making
‌Beware of confirmation bias 
     -> Challenge your own assumptions
‌Question your own expertise (Cognitive bias)
     Resistance to new perspectives
    -> Maintain beginner's mindset 
‌Understand and manage your own emotions
‌Seek diverse perspective
‌Don't overlook the value of simplicity
‌Learn to filter and prioritize information
‌Reflect on your decision making process
´´´
## Hyperfocus
´´´
4 types of task
Focused mode:
‌Necessary work -
‌Purposeful work - 
Autopilot mode:
‌Unnecessary work - keeps us busy!
                                   ( Leads towards nowhere)
‌Distracting work - 
´´´
## Eat that Frog
´´´
How to work more in less time?
‌Prioritize wisely
      Tackle most relevant and important task first
‌80/20 rule
       Concentrate efforts on high impact task
       Focus with most significant impact
‌Beat Procrastination
       Overcome delay by taking decisive action on            challenging task
‌Define goals clearly and visualise successful outcomes 
´´´
## Confidence
´´´
‌Confidence is a skill that can be learned and improved. Other people can't give you.
‌Two types of confidence:
1. Trait confidence (more stable)
     - boosted by developing growth mindset 
     [Note: Growth mindset is the belief that your abilities can be improved through effort and dedication]
2. State confidence (more temporary)
    - boosted by using visualization and positive self-talk 
[ Visualisation: Imagining yourself succeeding in a particular situation
Positive self-talk: Talking to yourself in a supportive and encouraging way.
]
‌Challenge your negative thoughts
‌Focus on your strength and develop them
‌Set realistic goals
‌Don't be afraid to fail
´´´
## Einstein's 7 Rule
´´´
Rule #1: Expend your efforts on the things that matter.
Rule #2: Do things you love, even if you’re terrible at them.
Rule #3: Have a puzzle mindset.
Rule #4: Think deeply, both long and hard, about things that truly fascinate you.
Rule #5: Don’t let politics fill you with either rage or despair.
Rule #6: Blind obedience to authority is the greatest enemy of the truth.
Rule #7: Science, truth, and education are for everyone, not just the privileged few.
´´´

## The upside of uncertainty 
´´´
A guide to find possibility in the unknown 
‌Reframe uncertainty as possibility
     - Embrace the potential for unexpected discoveries and hidden path.
‌Develop a Tolerance for Ambiguity
   - Learn to navigate the discomfort of not knowing all the answers 
   - Focus on process of exploration rather than need  for immediate certainty.
‌Build Resilience in the face of change
‌Embrace Experimentation and Iteration
   - The unknown is playground for experimentation.
   - Embrace iterative improvement over seeking perfection.
‌Cultivate Curiosity and openness
   - Approach the unknown with curious mind.
   - Be open to new perspective
   - Let randomness guide you to the unexpected opportunities.
‌Connect with your Intuition and Inner Wisdom
‌Prioritize growth over comfort
´´´
## The art of being Alone
´´´
‌Being alone: A purposeful way for introspection, self-discovery, self-reflection & personal growth.
‌Being lonely: Feeling of isolation and sadness 
´´´
## Never get angry again
´´´
‌Recognize what triggers you. And develop strategies to respond calmly & constructively.
‌Mindfullness and self awareness to obesrve your anger without reacting impulsively , allowing for thoughtful and controlled responses.
‌Take responsibility of your action and reaction.
‌Acknowledge yourself you are the only one who can manage your anger.
‌Resolve conflicts and reduce anger by practicing effective communication.
‌Expectation hurts. So, manage it to prevent your frustration and anger by adopting realistic expectations and accepting that not everything goes as plan.
‌Practicing empathy. Understand Interpersonal relationship. Consider others perspective and feelings.
´´´
## The organized mind
´´´
1. The Limits of Cognitive Capacity:
Lessons may involve an understanding of the limitations of the human brain in processing and managing information.
The book might explore how cognitive overload can lead to stress and decreased productivity, emphasizing the importance of awareness and intentional organization.
3. Organizing Information for Better Decision-Making:
Levitin may offer lessons on the significance of organizing information systematically to enhance decision-making.
The book could provide strategies for categorizing, prioritizing, and structuring information to improve cognitive efficiency and the quality of decision outcomes.
5. The Impact of Multitasking on Productivity:
The book may highlight the negative effects of multitasking on productivity and cognitive performance.
Lessons might involve recognizing the importance of focused attention, minimizing distractions, and adopting strategies for single-tasking to achieve better results.
7. Mindfulness and Mental Organization:
Lessons could include the benefits of mindfulness in mental organization.
The book might explore practices such as meditation and mindfulness techniques as tools for reducing cognitive clutter, enhancing focus, and improving overall mental clarity.
9. Strategies for Information Management:
Levitin may provide practical lessons on managing the influx of information in daily life.
This could involve techniques for organizing digital and physical spaces, utilizing technology effectively, and creating systems that facilitate information retrieval and processing.

´´´
